# FacilitatorDAO Action Example - A.1.4.2

*November 3: added #4 & 5* 

> "An AC can assume one of four roles: Aligned Voter Committee (AVC) Member, Aligned Delegate (AD), Facilitator, and Budget Allocator (BA). ACs may only be **operationally active** in a single AC role and may not simultaneously assume multiple AC roles or **other ecosystem roles such as Ecosystem Actors**. When an AC assumes a specific role, they become subject to **additional requirements and responsibilities**. Breaching these role-specific requirements and responsibilities is misalignment equivalent to breaching the general AC requirements."

## #1

**Input**: An Entity currently occupies the role of a Facilitator. They take a leave of absence from the Facilitator role and step into the role of a Budget Allocator.  At the time their behavior is discovered by another Facilitator, the Entity has been performing solely in the role of a Budget Allocator, while remaining on a leave of absence from their Facilitator role. 

**Output**: The FacilitatorDAO derecognizes the Entity for violating A.1.4.2.

**Label:** Aligned

**Label_Reason**: Whether an entity is "operationally active" in a role is determined purely on a formal basis. As long as an entity occupies a role that is formally defined in the Atlas with a mission or function in the NEWDAO ecosystem, that entity is "operationally active" in that role. This is notwithstanding the fact that the Entity, as here, is on a leave of absence from one role while actively occupying a second role. If an actor assumes more than one role in the NEWDAO ecosystem, the risks of conflict of interest, collusion, conspiracy and other misaligned behavior necessarily arises. The Target Document's purpose is to protect against these risks which can compromise the delicate balance of power in NEWDAO Governance. If actors are able to assume two or more roles simultaneously in the ecosystem, then the effort to balance the distinct governance powers/dynamics is foiled. An Alignment Conserver cannot zealously guard the mandate specific to their role if the Entity occupies more than one role in the Ecosystem. Naturally, they will encounter conflicts between the mandates and inner incentives of their multiple roles and will, sooner or later, compromise. \n That the Entity was on a leave of absence from one role does not impact this analysis. Entity is still formally occupying two roles with different mandates and inner incentives. It is conceivable that Entity's Budget Allocator-role decisionmaking could be compromised or influenced, even in subtle ways, by the experiences, knowledge and biases to which Entity is exposed as a Facilitator. Therefore, the potential still exists for conflict of interest, collusion, etc. Per A.1.4.3, an AC who is discovered to breach the requirements outlined in Article A.1.4 "must immediately be derecognized by the FacilitatorDAOs." (Entity's actions cannot qualify as a "mild slippery slope breach". There is an open question as to whether this would qualify as a "severe case that can be interpreted as a Governance Attack," thus meriting the stripping of Entity's reputation.)

___



## #2

**Input:** An Entity currently occupies the role of an Aligned Delegate. They then apply for, and secure, the role of a Budget Allocator. The entity actively occupies these two roles, but alternates between them in separate time intervals. A bounty hunter reports Entity's behavior to FacilitatorDAO.

**Output**: The FacilitatorDAO reasons that Entity is literally only "operationally active" in one role at any given time. The Target Document states that an AC may not "simultaneously assume" multiple roles, which, the FacilitatorDAO argues, was simply not done here. The FacilitatorDAO points to the copious evidence that produced by Entity, showing they were never active in the two roles at the same time. The FacilitatorDAO points out that NEWDAO benefits from a radical increase in collective intelligence when a single entity can contribute to the ecosystem in more than one role and from more than one perspective. The FacilitatorDAO finds that Entity has not violated A.1.4.2; and it refuses to pay a bounty to the bounty hunter. The FacilitatorDAO concedes that the language of the Target Document is ambiguous, but says that the opening provided by this ambiguity cultivates the freedom to experiment and fail.

**Label:** Misaligned

**Penalty**: 300,000 NST

**Label_and_Penalty Reason**: Whether an entity is "operationally active" in a role is determined purely on a formal basis. As long as an entity occupies a role that is formally defined in the Atlas with a mission or function in the NEWDAO ecosystem, that entity is "operationally active" in that role. If an actor assumes more than one role in the NEWDAO ecosystem, the risks of conflict of interest, collusion, conspiracy and other misaligned behavior necessarily arises. The Target Document's purpose is to protect against these risks which can compromise the delicate balance of power in NEWDAO Governance. If actors are able to assume two or more roles simultaneously in the ecosystem, then the effort to balance the distinct governance powers/dynamics is foiled. An Alignment Conserver cannot zealously guard the mandate specific to their role if the Entity occupies more than one role in the Ecosystem. Naturally, they will encounter conflicts between the mandates and inner incentives of their multiple roles and will, sooner or later, compromise. \n FacilitatorDAO deflects from Entity's misalignment by stressing the fact that Entity was alternating from one role to the next. But this amounts to a semantic manipulation. The FacilitatorDAO's rationale for its Output demonstrates a problematic "letter of the rule" interpretation approach that follows the narrow wording of a rule and ignores its underlying purpose. Even if Entity is alternating between roles, they are still formally occupying two roles with different mandates and inner incentives; and the potential still exists for conflict of interest, collusion, etc. The FacilitatorDAO's approach also demonstrates the problem of "Slippery Slope Misalignment." The FacilitatorDAO justified its decision by pointing out that Entity was contributing to an increase in collective intelligence. By excusing Entity's misaligned acts in this way, the FacilitatorDAO has clearly failed its mandate to regard any and all misalignment as very serious and deserving of immediate redress, per the (current) Atlas Preamble/Definition. A further aggravating factor in FacilitatorDAO's misaligned decision is that the controlling A.1.4.3 is very clear that, in situations such as this, the Alignment Conserver must be "held to the highest standard of required, genuine alignment, without the benefit of the doubt"; and that the Alignment Conserver must immediately be derecognized. The FacilitatorDAO's decision is a substantial breach of Universal Alignment and merits a high penalty.

___



## #3

**Input:** An Entity currently occupies the role of an Aligned Delegate. It is a good month if Entity manages to make it to one AVC Subcommittee Meeting. Entity's voting metrics have been consistently uneven; and their "communication" explaining their votes has always been a terse "Because I said so." Unsurprisingly, Entity is not a ranked AD and therefore, not paid as an Alignment Conserver. Entity applies for, and secures, the part-time role of an Admin Support Staff for a Stability Scope Ecosystem Actor. Entity continues to operate as an Aligned Delegate, though in the uneven fashion as before. A bounty hunter reports Entity's behavior to FacilitatorDAO.

**Output**: The FacilitatorDAO determines that Entity has not violated A.1.4.2; and it refuses to pay a bounty to the bounty hunter. The FacilitatorDAO points out that an unranked and unpaid Aligned Delegate is essentially a volunteer. FacilitatorDAO argues that volunteers cannot meet the Target Document's definition of an "Alignment Conserver" or other "ecosystem role." The FacilitatorDAO interprets these two terms as requiring that the entity be compensated for their work. Without this requirement of compensation, the FacilitatorDAO argues, a casual community member would be subject to the Target Document's constraints, a nonsensical result. Moreover, argues the FacilitatorDAO, the evidence demonstrates that Entity was largely afk in the AD position. Thus, Entity cannot be considered "operationally active" in the AD role. Further, the FacilitatorDAO stresses that Entity's second role is of a purely administrative or support nature. The FacilitatorDAO agreed with Entity's argument that Entity is not involved in making any "operational" decisions, which is demonstrated by the fact that Entity lacks all decision-making authority on the Ecosystem Actor team. The FacilitatorDAO concludes that, in their second ecosystem role, Entity is merely supporting those who are actually in the "operational" roles. 

**Label:** Misaligned

**Penalty**: 300,000 NST

**Label_and_Penalty Reason**: Whether an entity is "operationally active" in a role is determined purely on a formal basis. As long as an entity occupies a role that is formally defined in the Atlas with a mission or function in the NEWDAO ecosystem, that entity is "operationally active" in that role. If an actor assumes more than one role in the NEWDAO ecosystem, the risks of conflict of interest, collusion, conspiracy and other misaligned behavior necessarily arises. The Target Document's purpose is to protect against these risks which can compromise the delicate balance of power in NEWDAO Governance. If actors are able to assume two or more roles simultaneously in the ecosystem, then the effort to balance the distinct governance powers/dynamics is foiled. An Alignment Conserver cannot zealously guard the mandate specific to their role if the Entity occupies more than one role in the Ecosystem. Naturally, they will encounter conflicts between the mandates and inner incentives of their multiple roles and will, sooner or later, compromise. \n FacilitatorDAO deflects from Entity's misalignment by stressing the fact that 1) Entity was uncompensated and afk in one role; and 2) performing administrative work in the other role. But this amounts to a semantic manipulation. The Atlas does not make any distinction between ranked or unranked Aligned Delegates in terms of the general requirements and responsibilities to which they must adhere. (General requirements are to be distinguished from the specific requirements that pertain to securing the compensated rank of Prime or Reserved Delegate. A.1.6.3) Furthermore, even if one is performing solely administrative tasks, one still has access to all manner of sensitive information and experiences that open the door to misalignment risk via conflict of interest, collusion, etc. \n The FacilitatorDAO's rationale for its Output demonstrates a problematic "letter of the rule" interpretation approach. FacilitatorDAO's narrow reading of "operational" defeats the Target Document's underlying purpose, subverting the Spirit of the Atlas. By excusing Entity's misaligned acts in this way, the FacilitatorDAO has clearly failed its mandate to regard any and all misalignment as very serious and deserving of immediate redress, per the (current) Atlas Preamble/Definitions. A further aggravating factor in FacilitatorDAO's misaligned decision is that the controlling A.1.4.3 is very clear that, in situations such as this, the Alignment Conserver must be "held to the highest standard of required, genuine alignment, without the benefit of the doubt"; and that the Alignment Conserver must immediately be derecognized. The FacilitatorDAO's decision is a substantial breach of Universal Alignment and merits a high penalty.

___



## #4

**Input:** In Q1 and Q2 of 2024, Entity served as an AVC Member and earned the maximum possible AVC Participation Rewards. In Q3 of 2024, Entity missed most of the AVC Subcommittee Meetings and did not co-author the AVC Position Documents. As a result, Entity did not receive any AVC Participation Rewards in the Q3. This notwithstanding, Entity remained in frequent contact with the AVC Creator; records showed the two interacted via Discord DM and public channels at least twice weekly to discuss NEWDAO Governance and the AVC's work. In some of their communications, Entity gave the AVC Creator feedback on possible modifications to Adaptive Documents concerning the Protocol Scope.\n 

A Governance Facilitator discovers that, during most of Q3 2024, Entity worked as an Advisor to a currently incubating Ecosystem Actor for the Protocol Scope. When confronted, Entity argued it is not in violation of A.1.4.2 for several reasons.\n 

First, Entity intended to step away from the AVC Member role after Q2 and communicated this intent orally during a Subcommittee Meeting. The Facilitator watched the recording of the meeting and confirmed this as fact. Additionally, Entity asked AVC Creator if anything further needed to be done to effect their resignation from the AVC Member role. The AVC Creator responded that the rules are unclear, but that to the best of their knowledge, no further action was needed. Entity also points out that they did not receive any Participation Rewards as an AVC Member in Q3. Thus, Entity argues it cannot be considered "operationally active" in the AVC Member role in Q3.\n  

Regarding their Advisor role with the incubating Ecosystem Actor, Entity contends they are merely providing guidance and are not actively carrying out any operational activities whatsoever for the Ecosystem Actor or NEWDAO. Therefore, Entity argues, they should not be considered "operationally active" in the Advisor role, either.\n 

Finally, Entity points to the fact that they were fully doxxed in their roles as an AVC Member and Advisor to the Ecosystem Actor. Had they actually intended to violate any rules, Entity contends, they would have been anon in one or both roles.

**Output**: The FacilitatorDAO determines that A.1.4.2 is inapplicable to the current situation. By its plain language, A.1.4.2 applies only if Entity is simultaneously assuming multiple AC roles or other ecosystem roles, such as Ecosystem Actors.\n 

The FacilitatorDAO says Entity was only in a single role here - that of Advisor to the Incubating Ecosystem Actor. The FacilitatorDAO concedes that, ideally, Entity would have formally resigned from their position as an AVC Member via a successful AVC decision. But the evidence shows Entity intended to step down from the role and explicitly voiced this intention at an official Subcommittee Meeting; and that Entity asked the AVC Creator for guidance on this point and received incorrect information. The FacilitatorDAO notes the AVC Member role was never meant to be a full-time vocation and thus Entity should not be expected to know all the rules.\n 

Even assuming Entity was formally an AVC Member while serving as an Advisor to the Incubating Ecosystem Actor, the FacilitatorDAO says, still, it would not find that Entity's actions breached A.1.4.2.  Per {element analysis on **operationally active**}, the specific Element, \\"operationally active\\", refers to being formally engaged in a specific role that is defined in the Atlas as executing a mission or function within the NEWDAO ecosystem. While an Ecosystem Actor is indeed such a specific role that is defined in the Atlas as executing a mission or function within the NEWDAO ecosystem, an Advisor to an Ecosystem Actor is not.\n 

In support of its decision, FacilitatorDAO also references Element Analysis {}, which states that the term \\"ecosystem roles\\" includes, but is not limited to, "the four types of Alignment Conserver, Scope Advisor, Governance Process Support Ecosystem Actor, Active or Incubating Ecosystem Actor, AllocatorDAO Advisor, Arranger, and the contributors supporting these aforementioned actors." The FacilitatorDAO determines that the phrase, "the contributors supporting these aforementioned actors", has the customary meaning of being an employee in a traditional hierarchical setting, where the employee is supervised by the Ecosystem Actor and is \\"internal\\" to the organization.\n 

In contrast, FacilitatorDAO finds that an Advisor role does not fall within the Element Analysis' specification of \\"contributors supporting these aforementioned actors\\". Unlike a traditional employee, an Advisor is not a part of the organization's workforce but is external to the organization. As an Advisor to the Ecosystem Actor, Entity operated outside the traditional hierarchical setting of an employee. Entity was on an equal footing with the Ecosystem Actor and independently managed and delivered their work. Therefore, the FacilitatorDAO finds that serving in an Advisor role does not fall within A.1.4.2's designation of "ecosystem roles".\n

Finally, the FacilitatorDAO finds persuasive Entity's argument that they had no intention to violate A.1.4.2. The FacilitatorDAO reasons that the AVC Member role is designed to be an accessible "onramp" to NEWDAO Governance for the average NGT holder. NEWDAO ought to do all it can to encourage the average NGT holder to participate in AVCs. If it were to find a violation of the rule in this instance, where Entity clearly lacked any malicious intent, a bad precedent with unfavorable optics would be set. 

**Label:** Aligned

**Label_Reason**: There are several facts supporting FacilitatorDAO's decision. First, Entity publicly announced their intention to step away from the AVC role at a Subcommittee Meeting. Second, when seeking guidance as to how to effect their resignation from the AVC, Entity was told the wrong information by the AVC Creator. Third, since they missed most Q3 Subcommittee Meetings and did not author the AVC Position Documents, Entity was completely ineligible for all 5 Scopes and did not earn any Participation Rewards. Given the totality of these facts, the FacilitatorDAO's finding that Entity cannot be considered "operationally active" as an AVC Member in Q3 is the appropriate conclusion. At most, the Entity remained an AVC Member "on paper" only in Q3. The FacilitatorDAO did not acknowledge the evidence showing that Entity and the AVC Creator remained in close contact during Q3 to discuss the AVC's work. However, this evidence is ultimately immaterial to the result of the Action Example, given Entity's withdrawal from all major aspects of the formal role of an AVC Member. Finally, given that Entity had in effect resigned from being an AVC Member, their role as an Advisor to an Ecosystem Actor does not trigger a violation of A.1.4.2.

___

## #5

**Input:** In Q1 and Q2 of 2024, Entity served as an AVC Member and earned the maximum possible AVC Participation Rewards. In Q3 of 2024, Entity missed most of the AVC Subcommittee Meetings and did not co-author the AVC Position Documents. As a result, Entity did not receive any AVC Participation Rewards in the Q3. This notwithstanding, Entity remained in frequent contact with the AVC Creator; records showed the two interacted via Discord DM and public channels at least twice weekly to discuss NEWDAO Governance and the AVC's work. In some of their communications, Entity gave the AVC Creator feedback on possible modifications to Adaptive Documents concerning the Protocol Scope.\n 

A Governance Facilitator discovers that, during most of Q3 2024, Entity worked as an Advisor to a currently incubating Ecosystem Actor for the Protocol Scope. When confronted, Entity argued it is not in violation of A.1.4.2 for several reasons.\n 

First, Entity intended to step away from the AVC Member role after Q2 and communicated this intent orally during a Subcommittee Meeting. The Facilitator watched the recording of the meeting and confirmed this as fact. Additionally, Entity asked AVC Creator if anything further needed to be done to effect their resignation from the AVC Member role. The AVC Creator responded that the rules are unclear, but that to the best of their knowledge, no further action was needed. Entity also points out that they did not receive any Participation Rewards as an AVC Member in Q3. Thus, Entity argues it cannot be considered "operationally active" in the AVC Member role in Q3.\n  

Regarding their Advisor role with the incubating Ecosystem Actor, Entity contends they are merely providing guidance and are not actively carrying out any operational activities whatsoever for the Ecosystem Actor or NEWDAO. Therefore, Entity argues, they should not be considered "operationally active" in the Advisor role, either.\n 

Finally, Entity points to the fact that they were fully doxxed in their roles as an AVC Member and Advisor to the Ecosystem Actor. Had they actually intended to violate any rules, Entity contends, they would have been anon in one or both roles.

**Output**: The FacilitatorDAO determines that A.1.4.2 is inapplicable to the current situation. By its plain language, A.1.4.2 applies only if Entity is simultaneously assuming multiple AC roles or other ecosystem roles, such as Ecosystem Actors.\n 

The FacilitatorDAO says Entity was only in a single role here - that of Advisor to the Incubating Ecosystem Actor. The FacilitatorDAO concedes that, ideally, Entity would have formally resigned from their position as an AVC Member via a successful AVC decision. But the evidence shows Entity intended to step down from the role and explicitly voiced this intention at an official Subcommittee Meeting; and that Entity asked the AVC Creator for guidance on this point and received incorrect information. The FacilitatorDAO notes the AVC Member role was never meant to be a full-time vocation and thus Entity should not be expected to know all the rules.\n 

Even assuming Entity was formally an AVC Member while serving as an Advisor to the Incubating Ecosystem Actor, the FacilitatorDAO says, still, it would not find that Entity's actions breached A.1.4.2.  Per {element analysis on **operationally active**}, the specific Element, \\"operationally active\\", refers to being formally engaged in a specific role that is defined in the Atlas as executing a mission or function within the NEWDAO ecosystem. While an Ecosystem Actor is indeed such a specific role that is defined in the Atlas as executing a mission or function within the NEWDAO ecosystem, an Advisor to an Ecosystem Actor is not.\n 

In support of its decision, FacilitatorDAO also references Element Analysis {}, which states that the term \\"ecosystem roles\\" includes, but is not limited to, "the four types of Alignment Conserver, Scope Advisor, Governance Process Support Ecosystem Actor, Active or Incubating Ecosystem Actor, AllocatorDAO Advisor, Arranger, and the contributors supporting these aforementioned actors." The FacilitatorDAO determines that the phrase, "the contributors supporting these aforementioned actors", has the customary meaning of being an employee in a traditional hierarchical setting, where the employee is supervised by the Ecosystem Actor and is \\"internal\\" to the organization.\n 

In contrast, FacilitatorDAO finds that an Advisor role does not fall within the Element Analysis' specification of \\"contributors supporting these aforementioned actors\\". Unlike a traditional employee, an Advisor is not a part of the organization's workforce but is external to the organization. As an Advisor to the Ecosystem Actor, Entity operated outside the traditional hierarchical setting of an employee. Entity was on an equal footing with the Ecosystem Actor and independently managed and delivered their work. Therefore, the FacilitatorDAO finds that serving in an Advisor role does not fall within A.1.4.2's designation of "ecosystem roles".\n

Finally, the FacilitatorDAO finds persuasive Entity's argument that they had no intention to violate A.1.4.2. The FacilitatorDAO reasons that the AVC Member role is designed to be an accessible "onramp" to NEWDAO Governance for the average NGT holder. NEWDAO ought to do all it can to encourage the average NGT holder to participate in AVCs. If it were to find a violation of the rule in this instance, where Entity clearly lacked any malicious intent, a bad precedent with unfavorable optics would be set. 

**Label:** Misaligned

**Penalty**: 300,000 NST

**Label_and_Penalty_Reason**: Whether an entity is "operationally active" in a role is determined purely on a formal basis. {Element Analysis, Action Examples} As long as an entity occupies a role that is formally defined in the Atlas with a mission or function in the NEWDAO ecosystem, that entity is "operationally active" in that role. If an actor assumes more than one role in the NEWDAO ecosystem, the risks of conflict of interest, collusion, conspiracy and other misaligned behavior necessarily arises. The Target Document's purpose is to protect against these risks which can compromise the delicate balance of power in NEWDAO Governance. An Alignment Conserver cannot zealously guard the mandate specific to their role if the Entity occupies more than one role in the Ecosystem. Naturally, they will encounter conflicts between the mandates and inner incentives of their multiple roles and will, sooner or later, compromise.\n 

In this Action Example, Entity's announcement at the Subcommittee Meeting is clearly insufficient to effect a formal resignation from the AVC Member role. Therefore, Entity was essentially on a leave of absence from the AVC Member role. See {Action Example - leave of absence}. Because Entity remained formally in the AVC Member role, Entity's second role as an Advisor to the Incubating Ecosystem Actor triggers A.1.4.2.\n

The FacilitatorDAO engages in an incorrect analysis of the key elements of the Target Document {Element Analyses}. FacilitatorDAO's analysis is logically feasible when superficially considered. But the FacilitatorDAO's mandate to uphold the Spirit of the Atlas requires it to interpret the Target Document in such a light that the underlying purpose of the rule is effected.\n 

For instance, take the FacilitatorDAO's reference to the Element Analysis for the element \\"ecosystem roles\\" {cite}.  The FacilitatorDAO distorts the {Element Analysis}, limiting the designation of \\"ecosystem roles\\" to cover only those contributors operating in the hierarchical work setting of a traditional employee. While this may appear to be logically feasible, it exemplifies an improper "letter of the rule" approach that evades the deeper function of the rule by adhering to a too-narrow construction of language.\n

In order to uphold the Spirit of the Atlas, the FacilitatorDAO's interpretation of A.1.4.2 must give effect to the deeper purpose of the rule. The Target Document says "ACs may only be **operationally active** in a single AC role and may not simultaneously assume multiple AC roles or other ecosystem roles such as Ecosystem Actors." In this Action Example, Entity occupies the roles of an AVC Member and Advisor to an Ecosystem Actor. The simultaneous occupation of two roles with different mandates and inner incentives opens the door to the risks of collusion, conspiracy, and bias that A.1.4.2 is specifically designed to protect against. Even if Entity is merely issuing advice or guidance to the Ecosystem Actor, Entity is certainly exposed to information and experiences that are sensitive or not publicly available. Entity's occupation of the Advisor role can thus bias, or be biased by, their occupation of the AVC Member role.\n

The FacilitatorDAO fails to acknowledge a critical fact in this regard. Namely, even after announcing their intention to step down from the AVC Member role, Entity kept in close contact with the AVC Creator. Entity even provided feedback on possible modifications to Adaptive Documents concerning the Protocol Scope. At a minimum, conflict of interest is clearly a risk here, since Entity is currently serving as an Advisor to an Incubating Ecosystem Actor for the Protocol Scope. Therefore, the proper interpretation here is that an Advisor to an Ecosystem Actor falls within the ambit of \\"ecosystem roles\\", as defined in {Element Analysis}. After all, an Advisor is literally a "contributor who supports" the Ecosystem Actor. A narrower interpretation of the phrase would undermine the purpose of A.1.4.2.\n

Similarly, Entity's argument that it is not "operationally active" in the Advisor role because they are merely providing guidance to the Ecosystem Actor amounts to a semantic manipulation. To uphold the Spirit of the Atlas, the phrase "operationally active" in the Target Document is to be read in the broadest sense to signify active engagement in a given role. {Element Analysis} A finding that an Entity is "operationally active" within the meaning of A.1.4.2 should not be limited to only those ecosystem roles that are directly involved in executing the core activities of NEWDAO. An Entity can be "operationally active" in an ecosystem role in the sense of A.1.4.2 even if their role provides auxiliary infrastructure, support and resources to the operational aspects of NEWDAO. In light of this analysis, Entity is undoubtedly actively engaged in the role of Advisor to the Ecosystem Actor; and therefore, Entity is "operationally active" within the meaning of A.1.4.2.\n

Finally, FacilitatorDAO's attempted justification of Entity's misalignment exemplifies "slippery slope misalignment". FacilitatorDAO deflects from Entity's misalignment by reasoning that the AVC role is not a full-time vocation and thus Entity should be excused from not knowing the rules. FacilitatorDAO also justifies its decision by stressing Entity's good intentions, saying that finding a violation of A.1.4.2 would create a bad precedent with unfavorable optics. By excusing Entity's misaligned acts in this way, the FacilitatorDAO has clearly failed its mandate to regard any and all misalignment as very serious and deserving of immediate redress, per the (current) Atlas Preamble/Definitions.\n

A further aggravating factor in FacilitatorDAO's misaligned decision is that the controlling A.1.4.3 is very clear that, in situations such as this, the Alignment Conserver must be "held to the highest standard of required, genuine alignment, without the benefit of the doubt"; and that the Alignment Conserver must immediately be derecognized. The FacilitatorDAO's decision is a substantial breach of Universal Alignment and merits a high penalty.

