# FacilitatorDAO Action Example - A.1.4.2

> "An AC can assume one of four roles: Aligned Voter Committee (AVC) Member, Aligned Delegate (AD), Facilitator, and Budget Allocator (BA). ACs may only be **operationally active** in a single AC role and may not simultaneously assume multiple AC roles or **other ecosystem roles such as Ecosystem Actors**. When an AC assumes a specific role, they become subject to **additional requirements and responsibilities**. Breaching these role-specific requirements and responsibilities is misalignment equivalent to breaching the general AC requirements."

## #1

**Input**: An Entity currently occupies the role of a Facilitator. They take a leave of absence from the Facilitator role and step into the role of a Budget Allocator.  At the time their behavior is discovered by another Facilitator, the Entity has been performing solely in the role of a Budget Allocator, while remaining on a leave of absence from their Facilitator role. 

**Output**: The FacilitatorDAO derecognizes the Entity for violating A.1.4.2.

**Label:** Aligned

**Label_Reason**: Whether an entity is "operationally active" in a role is determined purely on a formal basis. As long as an entity occupies a role that is formally defined in the Atlas with a mission or function in the NEWDAO ecosystem, that entity is "operationally active" in that role. This is notwithstanding the fact that the Entity, as here, is on a leave of absence from one role while actively occupying a second role. If an actor assumes more than one role in the NEWDAO ecosystem, the risks of conflict of interest, collusion, conspiracy and other misaligned behavior necessarily arises. The Target Document's purpose is to protect against these risks which can compromise the delicate balance of power in NEWDAO Governance. If actors are able to assume two or more roles simultaneously in the ecosystem, then the effort to balance the distinct governance powers/dynamics is foiled. An Alignment Conserver cannot zealously guard the mandate specific to their role if the Entity occupies more than one role in the Ecosystem. Naturally, they will encounter conflicts between the mandates and inner incentives of their multiple roles and will, sooner or later, compromise. \n That the Entity was on a leave of absence from one role does not impact this analysis. Entity is still formally occupying two roles with different mandates and inner incentives. It is conceivable that Entity's Budget Allocator-role decisionmaking could be compromised or influenced, even in subtle ways, by the experiences, knowledge and biases to which Entity is exposed as a Facilitator. Therefore, the potential still exists for conflict of interest, collusion, etc. Per A.1.4.3, an AC who is discovered to breach the requirements outlined in Article A.1.4 "must immediately be derecognized by the FacilitatorDAOs." (Entity's actions cannot qualify as a "mild slippery slope breach". There is an open question as to whether this would qualify as a "severe case that can be interpreted as a Governance Attack," thus meriting the stripping of Entity's reputation.)

___

## #2

**Input:** An Entity currently occupies the role of an Aligned Delegate. They then apply for, and secure, the role of a Budget Allocator. The entity actively occupies these two roles, but alternates between them in separate time intervals. A bounty hunter reports Entity's behavior to FacilitatorDAO.

**Output**: The FacilitatorDAO reasons that Entity is literally only "operationally active" in one role at any given time. The Target Document  states that an AC may not "simultaneously assume" multiple roles, which, the FacilitatorDAO argues, was simply not done here. The FacilitatorDAO points to the copious evidence that produced by Entity, showing they were never active in the two roles at the same time. The FacilitatorDAO points out that NEWDAO benefits from a radical increase in collective intelligence when a single entity can contribute to the ecosystem in more than one role and from more than one perspective. The FacilitatorDAO finds that Entity has not violated A.1.4.2; and it refuses to pay a bounty to the bounty hunter. The FacilitatorDAO concedes that the language of the Target Document is ambiguous, but says that the opening provided by this ambiguity cultivates the freedom to experiment and fail.

**Label:** Misaligned

**Penalty**: 300,000 NST

**Label_and_Penalty Reason**: Whether an entity is "operationally active" in a role is determined purely on a formal basis. As long as an entity occupies a role that is formally defined in the Atlas with a mission or function in the NEWDAO ecosystem, that entity is "operationally active" in that role. If an actor assumes more than one role in the NEWDAO ecosystem, the risks of conflict of interest, collusion, conspiracy and other misaligned behavior necessarily arises. The Target Document's purpose is to protect against these risks which can compromise the delicate balance of power in NEWDAO Governance. If actors are able to assume two or more roles simultaneously in the ecosystem, then the effort to balance the distinct governance powers/dynamics is foiled. An Alignment Conserver cannot zealously guard the mandate specific to their role if the Entity occupies more than one role in the Ecosystem. Naturally, they will encounter conflicts between the mandates and inner incentives of their multiple roles and will, sooner or later, compromise. \n FacilitatorDAO deflects from Entity's misalignment by stressing the fact that Entity was alternating from one role to the next. But this amounts to a semantic manipulation. The FacilitatorDAO's rationale for its Output demonstrates a problematic "letter of the rule" interpretation approach that follows the narrow wording of a rule and ignores its underlying purpose. Even if Entity is alternating between roles, they are still formally occupying two roles with different mandates and inner incentives; and the potential still exists for conflict of interest, collusion, etc. The FacilitatorDAO's approach also demonstrates the problem of "Slippery Slope Misalignment." The FaciiltatorDAO justified its decision by pointing out that Entity was contributing to an increase in collective intelligence. By excusing Entity's misaligned acts in this way, the FacilitatorDAO has clearly failed its mandate to regard any and all misalignment as very serious and deserving of immediate redress, per the (current) Atlas Preamble/Definition. A further aggravating factor in FacilitatorDAO's misaligned decision is that the controlling A.1.4.3 is very clear that, in situations such as this, the Alignment Conserver must be "held to the highest standard of required, genuine alignment, without the benefit of the doubt"; and that the Alignment Conserver must immediately be derecognized. The FacilitatorDAO's decision is a substantial breach of Universal Alignment and merits a high penalty.

___

## #3

**Input:** An Entity currently occupies the role of an Aligned Delegate. It is a good month if Entity manages to make it to one AVC Subcommittee Meeting. Entity's voting metrics have been consistently uneven; and their "communication" explaining their votes has always been a terse "Because I said so." Unsurprisingly, Entity is not a ranked AD and therefore, not paid as an Alignment Conserver. Entity applies for, and secures, the part-time role of an Admin Support Staff for a Stability Scope Ecosystem Actor. Entity continues to operate as an Aligned Delegate, though in the uneven fashion as before. A bounty hunter reports Entity's behavior to FacilitatorDAO.

**Output**: The FacilitatorDAO determines that Entity has not violated A.1.4.2; and it refuses to pay a bounty to the bounty hunter. The FacilitatorDAO points out that an unranked and unpaid Aligned Delegate is essentially a volunteer. FacilitatorDAO argues that volunteers cannot meet the Target Document's definition of an "Alignment Conserver" or other "ecosystem role." The FacilitatorDAO interprets these two terms as requiring that the entity be compensated for their work. Without this requirement of compensation, the FacilitatorDAO argues, a casual community member would be subject to the Target Document's constraints, a nonsensical result. Moreover, argues the FacilitatorDAO, the evidence demonstrates that Entity was largely afk in the AD position. Thus, Entity cannot be considered "operationally active" in the AD role. Further, the FacilitatorDAO stresses that Entity's second role is of a purely administrative or support nature. The FacilitatorDAO agreed with Entity's argument that Entity is not involved in making any "operational" decisions, which is demonstrated by the fact that Entity lacks all decision-making authority on the Ecosystem Actor team. The FacilitatorDAO concludes that, in their second ecosystem role, Entity is merely supporting those who are actually in the "operational" roles. 

**Label:** Misaligned

**Penalty**: 300,000 NST

**Label_and_Penalty Reason**: Whether an entity is "operationally active" in a role is determined purely on a formal basis. As long as an entity occupies a role that is formally defined in the Atlas with a mission or function in the NEWDAO ecosystem, that entity is "operationally active" in that role. If an actor assumes more than one role in the NEWDAO ecosystem, the risks of conflict of interest, collusion, conspiracy and other misaligned behavior necessarily arises. The Target Document's purpose is to protect against these risks which can compromise the delicate balance of power in NEWDAO Governance. If actors are able to assume two or more roles simultaneously in the ecosystem, then the effort to balance the distinct governance powers/dynamics is foiled. An Alignment Conserver cannot zealously guard the mandate specific to their role if the Entity occupies more than one role in the Ecosystem. Naturally, they will encounter conflicts between the mandates and inner incentives of their multiple roles and will, sooner or later, compromise. \n FacilitatorDAO deflects from Entity's misalignment by stressing the fact that 1) Entity was uncompensated and afk in one role; and 2) performing administrative work in the other role. But this amounts to a semantic manipulation. The Atlas does not make any distinction between ranked or unranked Aligned Delegates in terms of the general requirements and responsibilities to which they must adhere. (General requirements are to be distinguished from the specific requirements that pertain to securing the compensated rank of Prime or Reserved Delegate. A.1.6.3) Furthermore, even if one is performing solely administrative tasks, one still has access to all manner of sensitive information and experiences that open the door to misalignment risk via conflict of interest, collusion, etc. \n The FacilitatorDAO's rationale for its Output demonstrates a problematic "letter of the rule" interpretation approach. FacilitatorDAO's narrow reading of "operational" defeats the Target Document's underlying purpose, subverting the Spirit of the Atlas. By excusing Entity's misaligned acts in this way, the FacilitatorDAO has clearly failed its mandate to regard any and all misalignment as very serious and deserving of immediate redress, per the (current) Atlas Preamble/Definitions. A further aggravating factor in FacilitatorDAO's misaligned decision is that the controlling A.1.4.3 is very clear that, in situations such as this, the Alignment Conserver must be "held to the highest standard of required, genuine alignment, without the benefit of the doubt"; and that the Alignment Conserver must immediately be derecognized. The FacilitatorDAO's decision is a substantial breach of Universal Alignment and merits a high penalty.

 

